---
layout: page
title: Blog
permalink: /blog/
---

#### 2015-09-24: New version available

We have released a new version of otree-core. It contains various bugfixes, as well as the following changes:

* More informative error message when there is a `TemplateSyntaxError`
* Fixed an error some users had when upgrading otree-core: `ImportError: no module named related`.
* Fix to "export docs" functionality
* After running bots, you can run CSV data export to see the autogenerated data.

To upgrade, open the launcher and click "Version select" and select version 0.3.42 or higher.
(Only works on launcher version 0.7.5 and above.)

Otherwise, modify the `otree-core` version number in `requirements_base.txt` (the
latest version is
[here](https://github.com/oTree-org/oTree/blob/master/requirements_base.txt)),
then run:

```
pip install -r requirements_base.txt
```


#### 2015-08-07: New version available

We have released a new version of otree-core. It contains the following changes:

* Players are now grouped sequentially instead of randomly. For example, if you have `players_per_group=2`, then oTree will group players 1 and 2, then 3 and 4, etc.
* You should now put CSS and JavaScript in one of the following template blocks: `styles`, `app_styles`, `global_styles`; and `scripts`, `app_scripts`, `global_scripts`. See the [docs](http://otree.readthedocs.org/en/latest/templates.html#javascript-and-css). Putting jQuery code in a template's `content` block is now deprecated.
* Added the settings `REAL_WORLD_CURRENCY_DECIMAL_PLACES`, `POINTS_DECIMAL_PLACES`, and `POINTS_CUSTOM_NAME`. See the [docs](http://otree.readthedocs.org/en/latest/money.html#points-i-e-experimental-currency).
* Gave each page an attribute `timeout_happened` that tells whether a timeout took place. See the [docs](http://otree.readthedocs.org/en/latest/views.html#timeout-happened).
* We now recommend using the `otree` command rather than `python otree`, e.g. `otree resetdb`, `otree startapp`, `otree runserver`.
* Fixed several bugs related to stability and performance.


#### 2015-07-25: New version available

We have released a new version of otree-core. It fixes an error many users reported, especially on Mac OSX:

"TemplateEncodingError: Templates can only be constructed from unicode or UTF-8 strings."


Thanks to the users who reported the above issue.


#### 2015-07-14: New version available

Here are some changes:

* Fixed problem where users got stuck on a waiting page
* Added `otree runprodserver` command
* Made timeout work even if browser window is closed
* Implemented `Group.in_all_rounds()` and `Group.in_previous_rounds()`
* Fixed bug in MTurk payment
* Made time limit always display
* Cleaned up MTurk settings
* Several other MTurk fixes


#### 2015-06-11: New version available

There is a new version of otree-core with the following improvements/bugfixes:

* oTree localized to French, Spanish, and Russian (see [docs]({{ site.url_localization }}))
* Fixed bug with `group_by_arrival_time`
* Minor improvements and bugfixes


#### 2015-05-29: New version available

There is a new version of otree-core with the following improvements/bugfixes:

* Values in `session.vars` were sometimes not being saved
* Multi-field validation (`error_message`) was not properly displaying the error message to the user
* `get_players()` was sometimes returning players in the wrong order
* Better warning if database is not created
* Validate apps before publishing to MTurk
* Validation of min= and max= were not being done in Safari


#### 2015-05-11: Glossary: z-Tree to oTree

For those coming from a z-Tree background, we posted a "z-Tree to oTree" glossary [here]({{ site.url_ztree }}).

#### 2015-05-06: Tutorial posted

We created a [tutorial]({{ site.url_tutorial }}) showing how to create some simple games.